# IOT-BASED-SMART-WATER-QUALITY-MONITORING-AND-FLOW-CONTROL-SYSTEM
Water pollution is the root cause for many diseases in the world. It is necessary to measure water quality using sensors for prevention of water pollution. There are a number of processes and factors affecting the water quality during transmission and distribution which are little understood. The effective and efficient system of Water Quality Monitoring (WQM) are critical implementation for the issue of polluted water globally, with increasing in the development of Wireless Sensor Network (WSN) technology in the Internet of Things (IoT) environment, real time water quality monitoring is remotely monitored by means of real-time data acquisition, transmission and processing. This project presents a reconfigurable smart sensor interface device for water quality monitoring system in an IoT environment. The smart WQM system consists of Arduino UNO microcontroller, sensors; IoT and Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) based wireless communication module. The proposed WQM system collects the five parameters of water data such as water pH, water level, turbidity, conductivity and water temperature in parallel and in real time basis with high speed from multiple different sensor nodes. This system is integrated with the IoT technology for real-time water quality monitoring. It aims to determine the contamination of water, purifies the water and also automatic measure of parameters in real time using Arduino UNO. This system is fine-tuned with additional sensors and reduced cost. The results show that the proposed system outperforms the existing ones and produces better results.
